Added blog for announcing Istio client-go (#5566)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2019/announcing-istio-client-go/index.md

---

> title: "Announcing Istio client-go"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Announcing Istio client-go
```

> description: "Using Istio clien-go to gain programmatic access to Istio resources."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Getting programmatic access to Istio resources
```

publishdate: 2019-11-12
attribution: Neeraj Poddar (Aspen Mesh)
keywords: [client-go,tools,crd]
target_release: 1.4
---

> We are pleased to announce the official release of Istio

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are pleased to announce the initial release of the Istio
```

> [client go](https://github.com/istio/client-go) repository which enables users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[client go](https://github.com/istio/client-go) repository which enables developers
```

to gain programmatic access to Istio APIs in a Kubernetes environment. The
generated Kubernetes informers and client set in this repository makes it easy
for users to create controllers and perform Create, Read, Update and Delete

> (CRUD) operations for all Istio Customer Resource Definitions (CRDs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(CRUD) operations for all Istio Custor Resource Definitions (CRDs).
```

> This was a highly requested functionality by many Istio users, as is evident

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This was a highly requested functionality by many Istio developers, as is evident
```

from the feature requests on the clients generated by [Aspen Mesh
Istio client go](https://github.com/aspenmesh/istio-client-go) and the [Knative

> project](https://github.com/knative/pkg/tree/a805b647f3f2aa6cec2f0490680377e5854775d9/apis/istio).

Reviewer: Can we use "master" here?

Author: We can, I know knative is going to remove this package soon, so I didn't want to knowingly add a link that will be removed soon.

I'm fine either way, your call.

> If you're currently using one of these above mentioned clients, you can easily

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're currently using one of the above mentioned clients, you can easily
```

switch to using [Istio client go](https://github.com/istio/client-go) like
this:

> {{< text plain>}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< text go>}}
```

virtual services](/docs/reference/config/networking/v1alpha3/virtual-service)
in the passed namespace:

{{< text go >}}
package main

import (
	"log"
	"os"

	metav1 "k8s.io/apimachinery/pkg/apis/meta/v1"
	"k8s.io/client-go/tools/clientcmd"

	versionedclient "istio.io/client-go/pkg/clientset/versioned"
)

func main() {
	kubeconfig := os.Getenv("KUBECONFIG")
	namespace := os.Getenv("NAMESPACE")
	if len(kubeconfig) == 0 || len(namespace) == 0 {
		log.Fatalf("Environment variables KUBECONFIG and NAMESPACE need to be set")
	}
	restConfig, err := clientcmd.BuildConfigFromFlags("", kubeconfig)
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalf("Failed to create k8s rest client: %s", err)
	}

	ic, err := versionedclient.NewForConfig(restConfig)
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalf("Failed to create istio client: %s", err)
	}
	// Print all VirtualServices
	vsList, err := ic.NetworkingV1alpha3().VirtualServices(namespace).List(metav1.ListOptions{})
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalf("Failed to get VirtualService in %s namespace: %s", namespace, err)
	}
	for i := range vsList.Items {
		vs := vsList.Items[i]
		log.Printf("Index: %d VirtualService Hosts: %+v\n", i, vs.Spec.GetHosts())
	}
}
{{< /text >}}

> You can find a more in-depth example [here](https://github.com/istio/client-go/blob/7b65e62d85b04207a1b04ea047dfe635a1e31cb9/cmd/example/client.go).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find a more in-depth example [here](https://github.com/istio/client-go/blob/{{< source_branch_name >}}/cmd/example/client.go).
```

## Useful tools created for generating Istio client-go

> If you're one of the users who's wondering why did it take so long or why was it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're wondering why it took so long or why was it
```

difficult to generate this client set, this section is for you. In Istio, we use

> Proto specifications to write APIs which are then converted to Go definitions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[protobuf](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers) specifications to write APIs which are then converted to Go definitions
```

> using the Proto tool chain. There are three major challenges which you might

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using the protobuf tool chain. There are three major challenges which you might
```

> face if you're trying to generate Kubernetes client set from a Proto generated API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
face if you're trying to generate Kubernetes client set from a protobuf-generated API:
```

* **Creating Kubernetes Wrapper Types** - Kubernetes [client generation](https://github.com/kubernetes/code-generator/tree/master/cmd/client-gen)
library only works for Go objects which follow the Kubernetes object
specification for e.g. [Authentication Policy Kubernetes

> Wrappers](https://github.com/istio/client-go/blob/7b65e62d85b04207a1b04ea047dfe635a1e31cb9/pkg/apis/authentication/v1alpha1/types.gen.go).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wrappers](https://github.com/istio/client-go/blob/{{< source_branch_name >}}/pkg/apis/authentication/v1alpha1/types.gen.go).
```

This means for every API which needs programmatic access, you need to create
these wrappers. Additionally, there is a fair amount of boilerplate needed for
every `CRD` group, version and kind that needs client code generation.
To automate this process, we created a [Kubernetes type
generator](https://github.com/istio/tools/tree/master/cmd/kubetype-gen) tool
which can automatically create the Kubernetes types based on annotations.
The annotations which are parsed by this tool and various options
are explained in the [README](https://github.com/istio/tools/blob/master/cmd/kubetype-gen/README.md).

> Note that if you're using Proto tools to generate Go types, you would need to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that if you're using protobuf tools to generate Go types, you would need to
```

> add these annotations as comments in the Proto files, so that the comments are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
add these annotations as comments in the proto files, so that the comments are
```

present in the generated Go files which are used by this tool.

* **Generating deep copy methods** - In Kubernetes client machinery, if you want to
mutate any object returned from the client set, you are required to make a copy
of the object to prevent modifying the object in-place in the cache store. The
canonical way to do this is to create a `deepcopy` function on all nested types.
We created a tool [protoc deep copy
generator](https://github.com/istio/tools/tree/master/cmd/protoc-gen-deepcopy)
which is a `protoc` plugin and can automatically create `deepcopy` functions
based on annotations using the Proto library utility [Proto
Clone](https://godoc.org/github.com/golang/protobuf/proto#Clone). Here's an

> [example](https://github.com/istio/api/blob/e51134872853a42ff015106ed79d00115e983fba/authentication/v1alpha1/policy_deepcopy.gen.go)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[example](https://github.com/istio/api/blob/{{< source_branch_name >}}/authentication/v1alpha1/policy_deepcopy.gen.go)
```

of the generated `deepcopy` methods.

* **Marshaling and Unmarshaling types to/from JSON** - For the types generated

> from Proto definitions, it is often problematic to use the default Golang JSON

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from proto definitions, it is often problematic to use the default Go JSON
```

> encoder/decoder as there are various fields like Proto `oneof` which requires

Reviewer: ```suggestion
encoder/decoder as there are various fields like protobuf's `oneof` which requires
```

special handling. Additionally, any Proto fields with underscores in their
name might serialize/deserialize to different field names depending on the
encoder/decoder as the Go struct tag are [generated
differently](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/17600).

> It is always recommended to use Proto primitives for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is always recommended to use protobuf primitives for
```
